# What is law?

## What do we mean by the question “what is law?”

- Is legal philosophy an attempt to understand the meaning of the term “law”?
	- This is the semantic theory of law
	- Not an interesting question. Why?
		- Law is an English word -- why should we care about a particular English word?
		- Capacious word: applies to things we don’t consider to be "law" in the sense of legal rules
			- Think scientific laws, mathematics, grammar
- Instead, we want to know the nature of the thing that the word “law” refers to: nature of legal institutions, rules, rights
	- Not a *semantic* question, but a *metaphysical* one
	- Consider the question “what is the nature of something?” Two approaches:
		1. Could be interested in the identity -- the essential properties of an object
		2. Could be interested in the necessary properties
	- Take the number three
		- Identity: number that comes after two
		- Necessary properties: odd, divisor of nine
			- But these don’t characterize its identity
	- Legal philosophers want to know both identity and necessary properties of law

## The nature of legal facts

- What is a legal fact? Examples:
	- Bulgaria has a legal system
	- In California, it is the law that you are not permitted to drive more than 65 miles per hour
- Legal facts are never metaphysically basic. Whenever a law or legal obligation exists, it always does so by virtue of some other fact(s)
	- C.f. laws of physics, which are metaphysically basic
	- Legal facts depend upon their relationship to other, more basic facts
- What do legal facts depend on? Two possibilities:
	1. Social facts alone. People got together and decided something
	2. Also moral facts
		- Why is it against the law to drive more than 65 m.p.h.? Not simply that legislature and governor decided -- it’s that people in CA *ought* to listen to what they say
			- Perhaps because they are democratically elected
	- Whichever is true, this is a necessary property of law
		- Matters because if the first is true, then legal reasoning does not involve moral reasoning
			- Just need to figure out which social facts ground law
		- But if the second is true, need to use moral reasoning to figure out what the law is

## The debate between legal positivism and natural law theory

- Positivists: the law ultimately depends on social facts, never moral facts
- Natural lawyers: law also depends on moral facts
- John Austin: ultimately, law depends on power
	- Legal facts are legal facts because they have a certain relationship to brute political power, which is a social fact
- Ronald Dworkin: legal facts ultimately depend on moral facts
	- What makes the law a particular way is not just about what political actors have done, but about deep truths about moral philosophy
