# Hart's critique of Austin II

## Duty, command, custom

- Austin: law is general commands backed by threats of sanctions issued by someone habitually obeyed and habitually obeys nobody else
- Hart's critique: Austin says all laws are commands which impose duties, but this ignores power-conferring rules
- Continue Hart's critique: even with respect to duty-imposing rules, is Austin's theory correct? Is it true that they really are general commands, backed by threats of sanctions?
- People obey the law not just because they want to avoid sanctions, but because they think they're morally obligated to do so
	- Austin could say: sure, but what makes it *the law* is that it is backed by sanctions
	- But when we say the good citizen responds to the law because "it's the law," what we mean is not just that they think law has content that is morally good
		- Consider the law against murder: the good citizen doesn't want to take life without justification and the fact that the law tells them not to murder doesn't add to their motivation
	- But there are laws that the good citizen responds to but not because their content is morally good, but simply because the law requires them
		- Whether I should pay my taxes at a certain rate is morally suspect, but the fact that the law requires me to do it means I should do it
- Reason to obey the law is *content-independent*
	- Can Austin's theory make sense of this?
	- No. For Austin, duty-imposing nature of the law is the fact that it's threatening an evil. But the good citizen is not following the law because of the evil threatened against them, but because the law demands it of them, and they think they are morally obligated to do what the law demands of them
	- Austin gets duty-imposing nature of the law wrong by emphasizing sanctions
- Are laws commands? Sometimes. Police officer can tell you to stop, judge tells you to approach the bench, etc.
	- But most laws not imposed by command (created imperatively)
	- Kelsen: in order to command something, you have to know what you're commanding. But legislation is created by legislators who don't know what's happening -- no legislator knows what content of an entire bill is
	- Plus, laws apply to legislators themselves. Doesn't make sense to command oneself
	- So Austin is wrong that laws are commands since laws are created in an impersonal, reflexive way
	- Imperative theory of law can't explain the existence of customary law. Stare decisis (look to precedent) is customary but binding. Business customs can be legally binding in contract law
		- But custom is not command
	- Austin would say custom is not law until courts apply it. When they do so (and sovereign doesn't contradict them) then the sovereign has tacitly commanded people to act according to the custom
		- But courts aren't applying custom with the hope that sovereign will let them do it. They are doing so because it's custom, and custom is law

## Sovereignty as habit

- Austin rejects the "egg principle": sovereignty depends on habits, not normative entities
- Hart: legal sovereignty possesses a property that habits can't explain -- when one sovereign leaves and another takes their place, there's no break in legal continuity
	- Austin can't explain this, since a habit of obedience takes time to form
- Persistence of law: once a law is made, it sticks around until it's unmade, even when lawmaker is no longer there
	- But Austin says all laws are threats, and when person making the threats goes, the threat goes too
- For Austin, sovereign can't be limited by law, since they habitually obey nobody else
	- Idea of constitutionalism is hard to explain
	- Who is the sovereign, according to Austin? Not a person -- it's a combination of institutions and individuals
		- In U.K., Austin thought king/queen in Parliament was sovereign
		- In U.S., it's "the people." How do the people obey themselves?
		- Austin: they've commanded themselves wearing their "sovereign" hat. When they obey the law they wear their "subject" hat
- Introduces idea that sovereignty depends on rules (need to distinguish between sovereign/subject capacity with rules), not just habits

## Internal point of view

- Hart wants to say Austin got it wrong by trying to rest all law on habits. Rather, the law rests on social *rules*
- Austin was right to think there is a component to social rules that involve behavioral regularities
	- But habits don't have a normative component
	- When you're following a social rule, you think you *should*
	- Judge other people's conduct in this way as well
- Internal POV is not just the insider's POV, but a particular insider: somebody who's internalized the norms of their group
	- Take the group's standard as the standard that guides your conduct and the standard to judge others' conduct
- Social rule is a behavioral regularity and a critical, reflective attitude characterized by internal POV
	- You don't just act like everyone else does. You are guided by standard that you're taking as the way that you ought to act
- Hart says the internal POV is not necessarily the moral POV
	- Can take internal POV because you think it might advance your career, or because people will judge you if you don't
	- Can accept a behavioral regularity as a standard for any reason, but when you've taken it as a standard, you've taken internal POV
	- It's normative, but not a *moral* statement
- Social rule is a social practice: behavioral regularity accepted from internal POV
