# Critique of Hart's theory

## Hart's solution to the chicken-egg puzzle and Hume's challenge

- Austin's solution: chicken came first, i.e. all law rests on sovereign, who is habitually obeyed and obeys nobody else. No further rule that makes sovereign the sovereign
- Hart says that doesn't work. We need an egg: secondary social rules like the rule of recognition: a duty-imposing rule that sets out the criteria of legal validity
- Who made secondary rules? Hart says nobody deliberately made them, rather, they are just social practices
	- Rule of recognition is created by legal officials listening to certain rules with certain characteristics, criticizing others when they don't
	- Social rules are social practices
- Can a pattern of behavior impose duties? Let's say some judge doesn't follow the Constitution. All judges defer to Constitution and have critical reflective attitude towards that practice. That's a descriptive fact about the world -- where is the normative fact, that the judge *ought* to follow the Constitution? This is Hume's challenge
	- How can you get the legal "ought" from the descriptive "is" of social practice?
	- Hart opts for expressivism: there are no normative facts in the world
		- But we can take different attitudes towards descriptive facts -- a descriptive attitude or a normative attitude 
	- Suppose someone has coronavirus. You can say "this person has an infection and if you get near them, you could catch the virus" (descriptive attitude)
		- Or you can take normative attitude: "Stay away from that person"
		- Not an additional fact -- it's a different attitude to the fact that they are contagious
		- Social practice can be engaged with either descriptively or normatively
			- You can take external POV or you can take internal POV -- take the social practice as a "to-be-followedness"
		- Law: taking social practice of rule recognition as binding is deriving an ought from the general internal POV of approaching social practice from perspective of "ought"-ness

## Are social rules social practices?

- Are social rules social practices? No
	- Seem like a category mistake: rules are abstract entities, but practices are concrete particulars
		- Rules have infinite domains, but practices are finite entities
	- Hart is trying to respond to Scandinavian realism: skeptical about rules
		- They wanted to say rules are just predictions about people would do
		- Hart thinks this is a mistake -- rules have internal aspect. But Hart identified the rule with the practice
	- Maybe he should have said rules are *created* by social practices
		- This doesn't work either
		- Can have social practices without rules: don't take your laptop into the shower
		- Some social practices give rise to rules. But we need to know what kinds of social practices give rise to social rules
			- Does the rule of recognition fall into this category?
- Perhaps the kind of social practices that give rise to social rules are *coordination conventions*, which are recurring solutions to coordination problems
	- Practice/convention to drive on the right side leads to a social rule
	- Everyone tips 20 percent leads to a social rule
	- Perhaps following same rule of recognition is a coordination problem and gives rise to social rule
		- This is incorrect
		- You follow a coordination convention because other people do so. Do officials in US follow Constitution because other officials do so?
		- It's not arbitrary, like driving on right side of the road -- officials have allegiance/respect for Constitution
	- Theory of law should not insist that judges are motivated for this particular reason

## Expressing yourself legally

- Hart's solution to Hume's challenge: legal facts are just social facts but where we take a particular normative attitude (internal POV)
	- You can take internal POV for any reason, as long as you're committed to those social facts
	- Causes problems:
		- Suppose bad man only follows the law because doesn't want to get punished. You don't have to be committed to law to figure out what law is
	- Hart's solution is not right -- can engage in legal reasoning without taking internal POV
	- Can have selfish reasons for internal POV. Defendant says to judge: the only reason you're saying I broke the law is that you want to pick up your paycheck. How can I be punished because you just want to pick up your paycheck?
		- Judge criticizes defendants for reasons that don't apply to them
- But Hart was right to say the law rests on rules, which rest on normative commitments
